Now that we've covered our case study we want to go back to the standard data sets for us so that we
can look at some advanced models.
And the first one which is quite bold but is really powerful is convolution neural networks.
And we're going to start by analyzing the current network that we understand which is these dense or
fully connected dealer network.
Recall that in a fully connected or a dense neural network every node in one layer is connected to every
node in the next layer.
So this is what makes it dense.
The problem here is that if you have for instance two thousand nodes in this layer and 100 in this layer
the number of connections are going to be two thousand multiplied by 100.
So that's a huge number of connections and each connection essentially means a parameter that has to
be learned.
So the number of parameters grows really quickly when you have a dense densely connected here.
So for instance let's go over here and try to see what this diagram is telling us.
So this over here is the input image so we'll consider an image of seven.
This blue portion over here.
So this is one two three four five pixels wide and five pixels high just concentrate on this blue portion
for now.
So imagine that this seven a five by five pixel image is in total twenty five nodes.
And we want to connect it to the next door which is going to be all here.
This output volume over here.
So we want to connect it to nine nodes which makes a three by three image.
So the way to do that is going to be that we multiply a five into five.
So that is twenty five nodes on one layer and nine nodes on the other layer.
So that is going to be twenty five to nine.
That is two hundred and twenty five nodes.
Now if you come back over here and this is three such images.
So essentially this is an R or direct channel of the image.
This is the green channel of the image and this is the blue channel of the image.
So now we have twenty five into three.
So that's five in the final three.
That is connected with nine.
So this is now six hundred and seventy five TDA that we need to learn.
And this is going to grow exponentially as we increase the number of output volume nodes or the pixel
size.
So this is going to increase exponentially and we really don't want that.
What we want is somehow to reduce the number of theaters and this is how we're going to do it.
Now come back over here and see that this all here this blue portion over here is our original image.
And what we want to do is we want to create a new vector or a new matrix over here which is going to
be three by three.
We'll explain why we're doing that but let's just take a look at the operation for now.
So what we're going to do is we're going to take this portion over here.
This three by three matrix and we're going to do element y's multiplication with this vector over here.
This matrix over here.
So what this is going to do is 0 multiplied by one zero into minus one but zero into minus one.
Plus you go into 0 0 2 1 2 into 0 0 0 zero into one and two into zero.
So all these are going to be multiplied elements twice and they're going to be some together.
Similarly for the other channel for the green channel we're going to have another three by three matrix
over here and this these are going to be multiplied together.
Finally for the blue channel we're going to have this values these this box of any three by three and
it's going to be multiplied by this over here.
So what this is going to do is this one thing some together this whole thing multiplied by this sum
together.
This one thing multiplied by this sum together plus this bias when you want it.
So all of these values are going to be some together.
And what we get over here is the first value for this output value.
So what this means is now we have a fixed matrix here a three by three matrix in a three by three matrix.
And a lot of value.
So this is going to be three to three.
That's one box multiplied by three the number of boxes.
And then we're going to have a plus one and that is going to be 28.
So just twenty two values that we need to fix.
So and what about the rest of the image.
So we simply go ahead and slide it into the next portion.
So this is going to take a stride of two.
So this is going to jump by two values over here.
And now we do the same thing.
These federal values are going to remain the same.
These matrix values are going to remain the same.
So it doesn't matter how larger images these values are still going to be 28 no matter how large we
make our image and the result of these two is going to go over here.
Similarly you move ahead and the two steps and then the results of the summation and multiplication
altogether is going to go over here.
Then we are going to jump to the next four and we're going to do the same operation the values of these
are going to remain the same again.
And these values go over here.
Similarly we're going to go ahead and take another jump and it's going to go what.
So what we're doing over here is we're taking these same weights.
These are called weights or we can call them values and model parameters.
We're taking just these twenty eight and we're sliding our window over the whole image.
So it doesn't matter how large the images these model parameters that we need to learn are going to
remain the same.
And what this is going to do is this is going to give us this three by three value output.
So this is what is called a finger and the operation that we're doing over here this element is multiplication
information that is called convolution.
And because these this neural network is going to based on this convolution OPERATOR We're going to
call it a convolution in neural network.
The good thing about the convolution neural network is one which is obvious that introduces the number
of parameters by unlock.
The second thing is because this individual is trying to learn a feature if it occurs if that feature
occurs over here in this box it's going to be identified if it occurs in forms just the lower part of
it here.
It's still going to be identified.
Consider the case where you're trying to identify something as a car a car is going to have a v of it
can be on the top left corner.
It can be on the bottom left corner of it as well as we might.
So as long as a beat is identified by a filter the factor is going to be considered a kind of a real
dagger.
So it's a filter that identifies where it really is.
Right.
So it doesn't matter where the wheel is as long as it's there in the image.
If it was going to identify it.
So that makes it a lot more robust in order to identify features in an image.
So that's one factor over here.
What about this other guy would.
For that we create a separate filter.
So we're going to go ahead and run this and it's going to go ahead and keep computing the values.
And once the once the first set of values is done we're going to go ahead and create a new filter over
here.
So these are these values for these metrics are going to be different from this one and we're going
to do the exact same operation except this is not going to lead to another output.
So one three by three output another three by three output.
These are 28 ordered parameters that we need to learn and another 28.
So it's still just 56.
So it's not that large of a number.
Now what we can do is we can increase the number of filters.
We can increase the filter size over here.
So let's consider the shapes.
So this is a five by five image.
And because we need to slide over this we need something outside over here as well.
So this is called padding rebadged this so that we can consider the edges of the image as well.
So now that we have this increased in size by one pixel This is a seven to one two three four five six
seven seven by seven image.
So that's seven by seven multiplied by three.
That is the number of channels so are G and B.
So that turns into a.
This is a matrix.
And then this turns into a tensor so that is a seven by seven by three tenths.
So this is a rank three tensor and that's where the name tensor flow comes from.
Essentially these dancers are going to be multiplied with each other and they want to be passed around
and they kind of flow through your architecture.
So that's where the name tensor flow comes from.
Over here we have a filter.
So this is a three by three.
So that's one two three one two three three by three.
And we have three filters one for each channel.
So that is a three by three into three.
So this three again is corresponding to the channels and because we have two of these filters.
So this all three multiplied by this filter is going to give rise to one theme three.
And because we have two filters in total so this whole set is one filter.
And this whole set is one filter because we have two filters we're going to end up with three two three
into two.
So this is going to be three in three that's one box over here and into two because we have two total
filters.
So you will get a lot of the understanding after a little bit of experience but it helps really a lot
if you explore this animation in detail and try to understand what it's doing this by the way is from
CSI 2 3 1.
And it's freely available it's of course by Stanford and it has really good explanations it has a lot
of theoretical background it also has a lot of assignments that you can do but essentially that's what
we're interested in and at the moment.
So now that we have this understanding this basic understanding of what a convolution operation is and
how the convolution network works what we want to do is we want to apply it on a on an example on a
real dataset.
So that is going to be our CFR.
And that said if you remember we did amnesty and amnesty what was handwritten digit but that is very
simply simplistic.
Plus it also has just grayscale images what we want to do is work with Ogilvie images with a lot more
complicated elements.
So the CFR then is essentially a dataset of 60000 images.
They are 32 by 30 through 32 and they are colored images which means they are in three channels.
RG And B the one that we just saw here plus it has 10 classes with 6000 images per class.
So you can take a look at the C for 10 dataset over here.
But what we want to do is we want to go ahead and apply convolution neural network to try and classify
any of these images into one of these classes.
So we do that in the next video.